Hattie was known for her charm, social wit, wile, skill in magical crafting, and fashion sense. For those who caught a glimpse of it, this handbag seemed always to match the situation and Hattie's appearance, but only she knew its secrets. After her assumed demise, this handbag was lost, and no one knew its whereabouts, or if another crafter could repeat Hattie's feat.

When found this handbag appears a small, nondescript clutch or pouch, however inside is an extradimensional space holding up to 20 pounds of material, not exceeding a volume of 2 cubic feet. You need at least one free hand to hold the handbag, and another to access its interior. The handbag always weighs 1 pound, regardless of contents.

Placing an object in the handbag follows the normal rules for interacting with objects. Retrieving an item from the handbag requires you to use an action. When you reach into the handbag for a specific item, the item is always magically on top.

After attuning when the handbag is held against you for one turn as an object interaction, it closes, stays in place, and becomes [condition]Invisible[/condition]. The handbag appears visible to spells such as [spell]See Invisibility[/spell] and [spell]True Seeing[/spell] for their duration. Speaking a command word causes it to detach from you, and appears visible as is most appropriate for your circumstances (even while you are under a spell to change your appearance) while maintaining its outward apparent volume (though exact shape may vary). Once attuned to this item, you magically learn the command word automatically (the word changes from owner to owner).

The handbag has a few limitations. If it is overloaded, or if a sharp object pierces it or tears it, the handbag ruptures and is destroyed. If the handbag is destroyed, its contents are lost forever, although artifacts in the handbag always turns up again somewhere. If the handbag is turned inside out, its contents spill forth, unharmed, and the handbag must be put right before it can be used again. If a breathing creature is placed within the handbag, the creature can survive for up to 10 minutes, after which time it begins to suffocate (though few creatures would fit into the mouth of a handbag).

Placing the handbag inside an extradimensional space created by a [magicitem]bag of holding[/magicitem], [magicitem]portable hole[/magicitem], or similar item instantly destroys both items and opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates at the place where one item was placed inside the other. Any creature within 10 feet of the gate is pulled through and deposited in a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate then closes with a loud noise. The gate is one-way only and cannot be reopened without other means as both items were destroyed.

Some say those lacking charm and fashion sense seem to quickly lose the handbag. This seems to be only bitter words from Hattie's critics. There are rumors that Hattie also crafted an improved version though [magicitem]Hattie's Handsome Handbag[/magicitem] has very rarely been seen.
